

Notes about overall UI & behavior


(Some features work only in the Windows version, but not in the Linux version; these are marked 'WPF only'.)


CAPTURING WITH OBS

You should use 'Window Capture' to capture the Z-Tracker window for streaming.  
For best results, set the 'Window Match Priority' to 'Window title must match'.
See also the BROADCAST WINDOW section below for more capture and sizing options.


STARTUP OPTION - Heart Shuffle: 

Turning this option off will just cause the first item box of each dungeon to be pre-populated with a heart container.


STARTUP OPTION - Hide Dungeon Numbers: 

(if this is your first time reading this document, skip this section and return to it later)

Enabling this option causes a number of changes in the tracker to help the player deal with this randomizer feature:
 - top area:
   - the dungeon triforces in the top of the tracker will be labeled ABCDEFGH instead of 12345678
   - a button above each triforce can be clicked to select that dungeon's Color and Number, once known
   - clicking the triforce to mark it gotten automatically pops up the Number chooser (and displays the 'triforce decoder diagram')
   - each dungeon has 3 boxes (some will go unused)
   - an additional 'triforce summary' appears in the upper right
      - triforces appear in 1-8 order, this helps the player see the numeric order e.g. when they are trying to recorder-to-next-dungeon 
      - hint 'halo's are associated with triforce numbers (not letters) and thus appear here by default
 - dungeon area:
   - the dungeon tabs are labeled ABCDEFGH9
   - the dungeon tabs and LEVEL- text get the Color of the dungeon
   - LEVEL-N becomes LEVEL-?, and the rainbow question mark is a button to select a Color for the dungeon
 - other:
   - the overworld map tiles for dungeons are labeled A-H
   - the blockers labels are A-H
   - voice reminders may refer to 'this dungeon' rather than e.g. 'dungeon three' when the Number is unknown

The workflow for the player then becomes:
 - when you first encounter a dungeon, label it as the first unused letter A-H: this will always be the canonical label for this dungeon
    - optionally, mark the floor color of the dungeon, by clicking either the '?' in the dungeon tab or the button above that letter's triforce
 - as you get items from the dungeon, mark them in that letter's column
 - when you get the triforce, set the dungeon Number (the Number chooser pops up automatically when you mark the triforce gotten)
 - if you can otherwise deduce with certainty the dungeon Number, set the dungeon number by clicking the button above the triforce

The Color marks are for the player's reference, and have no semantic meaning to the tracker.
The Number marks have semantics that interact with a number of tracker features, you should set it once known.


STARTUP OPTION - Start _____ Overworld:

Choose your overworld quest before you begin.  This chooses the correct overworld map drawing & the sets of coordinates that may have locations.
It also populates the 'Spot Summary' (see below) with the appropriate set of locations you will eventually find.

If you don't know which overworld quest it will be, due to the rando flagset, then select "Mixed - Second Quest".  
You may need to compensate a small bit if you discover you are in a different quest:
 - coordinate locations A12, D13, and H5 may look different in a non-mixed quest
 - if the seed is actually first-quest, then the Spot Summary...
      ...will have 1 extra Door Repair, 1 extra Money Making Game, 2 extra Potion Shops, and 3 extra item shops, and
      ...will report 1 large and 6 small secrets, when actually there will be 3 large and 4 small secrets
 - if you discover you are in (unmixed) first quest, consider clicking the HSQ button (see below)
 - if you discover you are in (unmixed) second quest, consider clicking the HFQ button (see below)


POPUPS

Z-Tracker uses popups extensively.  Many types of elements (items, map tiles, dungeon rooms, ...) have lots of possible choices to scroll through; 
to better visualize all the options, scrolling the mouse-wheel instantly brings up the popup to see all the choices.  You can either just continue 
scrolling, and then click once you have reached your desired choice, or you can mouse over the grid of choices and click the one you want (mousing 
is often faster when there is a very long list of choices, such as the overworld map tiles).  Clicking outside of a popup will cancel the popup 
and abort making any changes to the element.

When mouse-hovering an element with choices, scroll-wheel always activates the popup.  
In certain cases noted below, clicking also activates the popup.


DUNGEON ITEM AREA

Triforces:
Click to toggle having triforce.  
Triforce display suggests if dungeon has been located on overworld map: 
 - dark numeral means un-found
 - white numeral means location known
 - highlighted background means have helpful location hint (see below)
Mouse-hovering the triforce will highlight the dungeon's (possible) location(s) on the map if known (or hinted).
If the dungeon location is known to be an overworld spot blocked by raft/powerBracelet/raft/recorder, a tiny icon of that blocker appears in its 
upper right.  This is to help keep track of things if playing using the "Force Overworld Block" flag setting of the rando.

Items:
The list of possible items (book, boomerang, ...) appears in a popup.  Choose the item to populate a box, and
 - left click marks it Green, to denote that you have this item in your inventory
 - right click marks it Red, to denote that you do NOT yet have this item (e.g. you got a helpful hint that the red ring is in 6)
 - middle click marks it Purple (with X), to denote you intentionally are skipping this item (see below)
Green, already-gotten items appear smaller and desaturated, to help ensure your attention stays focused on the Red boxes, which are remaining work.
In addition to scrolling, clicking an empty item box will activate the popup.  Repeat-clicking (e.g. left-click a box you have, or right-click a
box you don't have) a non-empty item box will also activate the popup.

The purpose of being able to mark items as 'skipped' is so that the various reminder systems will quit pestering you (about, for example, the 
boomerang you intentionally left behind on the coast), while still accurately capturing your true 'item progress' on the screen for viewers.

Most item progress has semantic meaning to the tracker with regards to routing/reminders/etc as described below.


OTHER ITEM AREA

White Sword Item, Coast Item, Armos Item - just like dungeon item boxes
  If the white sword cave location is known to be an overworld spot blocked by raft/powerBracelet/raft/recorder, a tiny icon of that blocker appears 
  in its upper right.  This is to help keep track of things if playing using the "Force Overworld Block" flag setting of the rando.
magic sword, wood sword, blue candle, wood arrow, blue ring - click these when you get them, so they appear on the Timeline (see below)
bombs - click when you get bombs, to have map routing send you to bombable locations (see below)
boomstick book - click when you get it to mark the timeline, and click S/B to toggle whether Shield or Book icon is available as a dungeon item
ganon/zelda - click when you kill ganon or rescue zelda, marks timeline; clicking zelda will also post your finish time as text in the NOTES section
4 take-any hearts - click or scroll to say you took a heart container (red heart) or chose another option (X)

(timer, current max hearts - just for display)
'N' gettable - click or hover to highlight all the remaining overworld tiles you could uncover given your current item set; color will be 
  greenish if guaranteed to yield a location, yellowish (mixed quest) if maybe empty.
'N' OW spots left - count of all remaining spots, hovering shows them all with green/yellow highlights as with 'gettable' spots above, and red for 
  un-gettable (given the player's current inventory)
Zones - click or hover to show overworld map zones, as hinted by randomizer NPCs for locations
Coords - click or hover to show a coordinate overlay
HFQ/HSQ - if flagsset not known to be 1st/2nd/mixed overworld, select mixed-2nd at start, and Hide First Quest or Hide Second Quest if later helpful

(WPF only) the upper right area of the tracker, containing only the HFQ/HSQ buttons, the spot summary, and the timer (and Link) is 'boxed off', 
  so that streamers with their own timers can choose to use this 16x9 (4x3) area for a webcam, or a branding image, or whatnot. 
  (Send Brian feedback if you use this.)

Mouse-hovering the wood/white/magical sword icons will highlight their cave's (possible) location(s) on the map if known (or hinted).
Mouse-hovering the boomstick book icon will highlight its shop location on the map, if known.
Mouse-hovering blue_ring/wood_arrow/bomb icon will highlight all its shop locations on the map.
Mouse-hovering blue_candle icon will highlight all its shop locations on the map if you don't yet have a candle, otherwise it highlights burnable trees.
Mouse-hovering the armos icon will highlight any armos locations you have not yet marked up.
Mouse-hovering the power-bracelet/ladder/raft/recorder/redcandle in your inventory or in the 'item progress' bar will 
  highlight any push-block/ladderable/raftable/whistleable/burnable locations you have not yet marked up.
Mouse-hovering the open-cave icon will highlight any open cave locations you have not yet marked up.

Mouse-hovering 'Spot Summary' displays all the possible overworld locations that can be found, graying out the subset you have already found.  
This makes it easy to get an overview glance at what remains to be found, or see e.g. how many large secrets or door repair charges remain, if
you have been marking those diligently.


LINK (Specific routing)

Link is here to help guide you on your quest!  Click on Link, select a destination, and the best path(s) from your mouse cursor to the destination
will be shown on the screen for the next ten seconds.

Link can even deal with ambiguous locations, for example, if dungeon 3 was hinted to be 'by a lake', you can have Link route you there, and he will
show routes to all the remaining accessible lake destinations, as well as highlighting other inaccessible locations (e.g. because you don't have 
the raft and can't reach the middle of the lake).  Link's highlight colors are: green for accessible destinations that always have an entrance,
yellow for accessible destinations that only sometimes have an entrance (e.g. mixed quest, some map tiles don't bomb), and red for map tiles of 
interest that you can't reveal with your current inventory.


OVERWORLD MAP

16x8 Map Tiles:

   "icon"       description
   ---------------------------
 - "1-9"        dungeons
 - "1-4"        any roads (stair warps)
 - "sword3/2/1" magical sword/white sword/wood sword item cave
   ---------------------------
 - (items)      item shop
   ---------------------------
 - "green"      secrets: "?" unknown, "$" large, "rupee" medium, "¢" small
 - "door"       door repair charge
 - "dice"       money making game
   ---------------------------
 - "letter"     the potion letter cave
 - "armos"      armos item location (can only be in 5 spots)
 - "purple?"    hint shop, or white/magical sword hint
 - "heart"      cave to "take any one you want"
 - "potion"     potion shop
 - "dark"       nothing, or don't care

The list of all these possible map tile icons appears in a popup.  In addition to scrolling, right-clicking an unmarked map tile will activate 
the popup.  Left-clicking a "dark" tile will also activate the popup.

Left-clicking an unmarked map tile will mark it 'dark', as an accelerator for marking don't-care spots.
Left-clicking an item shop pops up choices for a second item in the shop (max of 2 items).  Right click to change the first item (whole tile popup).
Left-clicking toggles the brightness of some icons; "bright" means somewhere you might return to later; "dark" means you are done with the location.
 - take-any, wood-sword-cave, hint shops, and large/medium/small secrets are all examples of these, where you might walk away and return later

Some map tiles have accelerators.  For example, when selecting the 'take any heart' map tile from the popup grid (or via speech), the take-any
accelerator will pop up, with 4 choices (take potion, take candle, take heart, take nothing).  Your selection may have multiple effects, for 
example, choosing the candle will (1) 'X' out one of the take-any hearts in the top of the tracker, (2) mark that you have a blue candle in the top 
of the tracker, and (3) mark the overworld map tile as a 'taken' take-any-heart.  The accelerator is a pie menu that pops up in the middle of the
window and warps your mouse cursor to the center, so you can quickly make a selection with a small mouse movement and a click.  After making the
selection, your mouse cursor is warped back to the overworld tile you started at.  Using the accelerators is simple and intuitive; reading this
paragraph was comparably more difficult and time-consuming.

An unclaimed White-Sword- or Coast- Item will appear on Sword2 and Coast map tiles, for convenience.
You can interact with these item boxes on their map tiles, rather than having to move your mouse to the top-tracker to interact with them.

Hovering an overworld map tile shows a magnified version of nearby tiles, to make it easier to see e.g. which square to bomb, without having to squint.

Mouse-hover for routing from the current tile: (generalized routing)
 - a path will be drawn from the currently mouse location to all "routeworthy" locations, e.g.
    - unmarked overworld spots
    - uncompleted dungeons
    - un-gotten coast item, white sword item, magical sword
 - "routeworthiness" takes into account your current items (e.g. will not route to burnable tree if you have no candle)
 - routing takes into account your current items (e.g. will not cross river if have no ladder)
 - routing understands any-road warps
 - routing assumes recorder takes you to dungeons you already have gotten the triforce from (a common randomizer flag)
 - routing assumes no screen-scrolling or other fancy walking glitches
 - routing knows special map topology (e.g. Lost Hills)
The routeworthy spots nearest the mouse cursor will be highlighted: greenish if guaranteed to yield a location, yellowish (mixed quest) if maybe empty.
You can turn off these routing and highlighting marks if you find them distracting (options menu).  Even if you turn off these generalized routing marks, 
you can still click on Link to get the temporary, specific routing marks on-demand.

Clicking the 'Hint decoder' button in the bottom right pops up the 'Aquamentus Awaits' table, where you can populate location hints for dungeons/swords. 
Each hinted-but-not-yet-found location causes a 'halo' to appear on the triforce/sword icon in the upper portion of the tracker, and hovering the halo
shows the possible locations for that dungeon or sword cave.  Hint-halo-highlights on the overworld map will be colored:
  green:   if it's a location you can uncover with your current inventory, and is guaranteed to yield a location
  yellow:  if it's a location you can uncover with your current inventory, but is not guaranteed to yield a location (mixed quest)
  red:     if it's a location you can't uncover yet (e.g. a push-block spot when you don't yet have the power bracelet)

"Item progress" bar lights up items as you get them or upgrade them, as a quick display summary of the player state.

You can click the 'Start Spot' icon in the legend to mark your starting screen on the overworld map.


TIMELINE

The timeline is an affordance, for e.g. viewers who watch a stream and arrive late, or for the player who finishes a seed and wants a retrospective of their game.
Every minute, the player's inventory (as captured in the top portion of the tracker) is read, and new items are posted to the timeline above the minute-marker.  
This makes it easy to look back and see e.g. that you got the wood sword in the 12th minute.

The timeline is non-interactive, it is just a display for capturing progress-over-time.


OPTIONS MENU

Above the timeline, there is a button labeled "Options..."  
Clicking this button causes the timeline pane to be replaced by the options menu.  
A variety of tracker features can be turned on and off here; mouse-hover the text for a detailed description.
Some randomizer flag settings are also featured here, notably 'Second quest dungeons' and 'Mirror overworld'.
The options pane automatically saves & closes when you click outside the pane, revealing the timeline once again.
Options are saved automatically to a JSON file, so that next time you use the tracker, it remembers your settings.


DUNGEON TRACKER

There are 9 tabs for the 9 dungeons.

The right column of each tab has an area with this dungeon's triforce and items, so you can edit them without having to mouse all the way to the top of the app.

Doors between rooms are simple, and have three states:
 - dark gray is unknown (default)
 - green (left click) is "can go" (used for all kinds of doors/shutters/bombholes/etc)
 - red (right click) is "cannot go" (e.g. unbombable wall)

Dungeon rooms are somewhat complicated, as there is a lot of state you might want to track.  Read about them in DUNGEON ROOMS section below.

If you click-and-drag the dungeon map with left mouse button, you can 'paint' a bunch of completed rooms by dragging over them.  
Same with right mouse button, but for uncompleted rooms.  
These features can be useful when you play part of a dungeon without mapping it, but then later decide you need to map it--quickly 'paint' what you have done.
Or if you enter a dungeon with a book-atlas-map, you might want to 'paint' the uncompleted dungeon rooms before starting.
Mouse-hovering the little blue bars in the bottom right corner of the dungeon tab will popup a display that mimics the in-game mini-map.  This can make it
easier to compare the rooms-you-have-painted to the actual in-game minimap, to spot any errors you may have made transcribing the map.

Sometimes you may mark up a bit of dungeon map, before noticing that (a portion of) your mapping is offset by a column.  You can click 'GRAB' in the corner 
of the dungeon map to switch to 'grab mode', which allows you to pick up entire segments of dungeon rooms and doors and move them at once (cut & paste) to 
fix an offset map.

Non-hidden dungeon numbers: FQ and SQ checkboxes will show First Quest or Second Quest outlines for that dungeon number.
Hidden dungeon numbers: 'FQ/SQ' button pops up all the vanilla dungeon shape outlines for you to choose from, with hover previews and hinting which ones 
    are compatible with your current room markup.

Dungeon tracking has no semantic meaning to the tracker, and can be used by the player however they see fit.

When your mouse is inside the dungeon map area, the location of that dungeon will be highlighted on the overworld map.


DUNGEON ROOMS

Dungeon rooms are somewhat complicated, as there is a lot of state you might want to track.  You might want to utilize only a subset of the dungeon room features.

To motivate Z-Tracker's feature set, consider a dungeon room with a Digdogger, a floor drop of a bomb pack, and a push-block leading to a staircase basement
containing a key item like the Ladder.  Should this room be marked as a Digdogger room? A bomb pack room? An item staircase?  The salient information may change
over time, e.g.
 - you walk into the room the first time, and see Digdogger, a bomb pack on the floor, and a possible push block
 - you might want to leave the bomb pack, spend some bombs in adjoining rooms, and then return 90 seconds later to pick up the bomb pack
 - you might have to come back in 10 minutes with a recorder to defeat Digdogger, and try pushing the block, revealing the item staircase
 - you might be walking back through the room a couple minutes after that, and not be sure if you already tried pushing the pushblock

Z-Tracker supports four independent aspects of a given dungeon room:
 - RoomType          - the 'shape' or 'staircase info' of a room, examples including:
                            'empty room', 'room with possible pushblock', 'room with transport staircase 2', 'old man hint', 'hungry Goriya', 'chevy moat', ...
 - MonsterDetail     - information about boss monsters or bubbles in the room
 - FloorDropDetail   - what floor drop the room has, and whether you have already gotten it
 - Completedness     - are you 'done' with this room

As a result, in the scenario described before, you could mark up the room thusly:
 - upon entering the room, mark it as RoomType='possible pushblock', MonsterDetail=Digdogger, FloorDropDetail='bomb pack (ungotten)', Completed=no
 - after returning to grab bombs, you can toggle the 'gotten' of the FloorDropDetail
 - later when you kill Digdogger, you can mark the room Complete
 - upon discovering the item staircase, you could change the RoomType to 'item staircase'
How much of this detail you choose to track is up to you, and the interface makes it easy to ignore details you don't care about.

If all you care about it 'what rooms have I been in, and what rooms have I completed', then all you need is left-click:
 - left-click an unmarked room to mark it as the default-RoomType, as a completed room - completed rooms have a dark outline
 - left-clicking a marked room toggles its 'completedness' - uncompleted rooms have a bright outline, to make them noticeable as a place to return to later

If you want to change a RoomType (to mark a transport staircase, hungry Goriya, chevy moat, ...), then right-click the room to bring up the RoomType popup:
 - a grid of 30 possible types of rooms appear
 - choose the one you want with your mouse, and left-click it

If you want to change the MonsterDetail or FloorDropDetail for a room, then right-click the room to bring up the RoomType popup, choose the room type, 
but this time right-click the RoomType selection to bring up the MonsterDetail/FloorDropDetail interface.  Click on details in the grids to apply them
to the current room's "preview" tile.  Once you are done, click the preview tile to save your edits to the dungeon map; a left-click marks the room completed,
and a right-click marks it uncompleted.  (After clicking a detail, its grid briefly goes half-transparent, as visual feedback that your detail has been applied
to the "preview" tile.  The half-transparent grid is another 'save' click-target, like the preview tile, with the implication that you can, for example, double-
right-click the Gleeok MonsterDetail as a way to say 'add a Gleeok to this room tile and immediately save this as an uncompleted room and exit the popup.)

If you have marked a FloorDropDetail, you can toggle whether you have 'gotten' the floor drop by middle-clicking the room on the map.  Un-gotten floor drops
appear as a bright icon, and gotten floor drops appear darkened.

If a room does not have a FloorDropDetail, then middle-clicking will toggle a yellow 'circle' around the room.  This is an ad-hoc mark which you can use 
however you like, but the suggested use is to mark an un-gotten, unspecified floor drop item.  In my experience, it is very rare to intentionally "leave
behind" a floor drop to come back to later - the main exception is bomb packs.  As a result, if I leave a bomb pack behind, I'll just middle-click-
yellow-circle a room to quickly mark it, rather than go through the more cumbersome FloorDropDetail UI.  In the rare case where I leave something else behind,
such as an unreachable key in the middle of a circle-moat room when I don't have the ladder, then I use the FloorDropDetail UI to capture that specific bit
of information.

The MonsterDetail and FloorDropDetail information appear as tiny icons in the corners of rooms on the map.  If you want to briefly make these icons larger 
and see a legend, you can mouse-hover the checkbox in the very bottom right of the dungeon tab.  If you want to permanently keep the icons on their larger
size, click that checkbox.

While the vast majority of RoomType choices represent staircases (e.g. transport 2, item basement), NPCs (e.g. bomb ugrade, hungry Goriya), or geometry-
blockers (e.g. chutes, moats), there are also four special RoomTypes to mark the entrance to the dungeon, along with which direction you entered from.
As a convenience, the very first room you click on in the dungeon will automatically popup the RoomType chooser, with the mouse pre-positioned on the
'Dungeon entrance (from south)' tile, as this is the most common entrance direction.


BLOCKERS

This is an area you can optionally use to mark 'dungeon blockers', for scenarios where you cannot complete a dungeon now and need to return later.
You can mark up to 2 blockers per dungeon.  The icons have these suggested meanings:
 - Sword:       you need better combat gear (sword upgrade, ring upgrade, or maybe wand)
 - Bow & Arrow: you need a bow and arrow (Gohma block, or maybe tons of Pols Voice)
 - Recorder:    you are blocked by Digdogger
 - Ladder:      there's a ladder block (moat)
 - Bait:        there's a hungry Goriya blocking you
 - Key:         you need more keys
 - Bomb:        you need to find more explosion walls
The list of all these icons appears in a popup.  In addition to scrolling, clicking a blocker box will activate the popup.  

When possible, the tracker will give a reminder when you may be unblocked, for example, if you marked 5 with a ladder block, then when you obtain the ladder:
    (WPF Only)  voice reminder:   "Now that you have the ladder, consider dungeon 5" 
                visual reminder:  (ladder icon) (right-arrow) (dungeon 5 icon)
You can toggle whether you get these reminders in the Options Menu.


NOTES

This area is for ad-hoc text note-taking by the player (e.g. quickly type "5 BU 128" to remind you to return to level 5 to buy a Bomb Upgrade for 128 rupees).
Unlike scrap paper on your desk, these notes are visible to stream viewers.


HOTKEYS

You can bind hotkeys (keyboard keys 0-9 or a-z) by editing the HotKeys.txt file in the Z-Tracker folder.  The text file format is self-describing.

There are four mouse-hover 'contexts' for hotkeys: item boxes, overworld tiles, blockers, and dungeon rooms.  So for example 'b' could be set up to mean 'bow' 
when the mouse is over an item box, 'bomb shop' when the mouse is over an overworld tile, 'bow & arrow' when the mouse is over blockers, and 'bomb upgrade 
room' when the mouse is over a dungeon room.

While there is no support for editing or reloading hotkey information inside the application, Z-Tracker does provide a way to display your current hotkey
information.  Click the button 'Show HotKeys' to the right of the overworld map legend, and it will create a new, resizable, window displaying your hotkey
mappings.  You can choose to leave that window wherever you like on your desktop as a 'cheat sheet' when trying to learn your hotkeys; close the hotkey
window at any time when you are done with it.

Hotkeys only work when the Z-Tracker window has focus.  If your hotkeys don't appear to be working, click somewhere in the app window to ensure that window 
has focus, and then try again to hover an empty item/overworld/blocker/dungeon box and press a keyboard hotkey.

Hotkeys have some 'smarts' in addition to just 'setting the state you pressed':
 - item boxes
    - repeat presses of the same item will cycle the red-green-purple of the box outline, so for example is 'b' is bow, then 'bbbb' on an empty box would go
      empty box -> red bow -> green bow -> purple bow -> red bow
 - overworld
    - on an item shop, pressing a hotkey of an item already-in-a-shop will remove that item from the shop
    - on an item shop, pressing a hotkey of a different item, when the shop has an extra space, will add that item to the shop
    - on an item shop, if the shop is filled with two items, pressing a third item's hotkey will replace the first item
    - on tiles with a brightness toggle, repeat hotkeys will toggle between "bright" and "dark" versions of the tile icon
 - blockers
    - a repeat hotkey toggles a blocker box back to empty



SAVE STATE

There is no support for saving in-progress game data; the tool is currently designed only for playing a single continuous session.


BROADCAST WINDOW (WPF only)

On the options menu, you can opt into a 'broadcast window'.  This causes a separate, smaller window to appear; the new window is designed for stream-capture, 
for streamers who think the Z-Tracker app is too large for their stream layout.  The broadcast window has two possible displays: one is overworld-focused, and
the other is dungeon-map focused.  The broadcast window will automatically switch between views depending upon if your mouse is in the upper portion or the 
lower portion of the main Z-Tracker window.  The broadcast window is not interactive - it does not respond to mouse clicks, and is only a display.  Thus, you 
use the main Z-Tracker window exactly as your normally would, but rather than have your stream capture the main interactive Z-Tracker window, you instead 
capture the smaller broadcast window, and it will automatically show the correct subset of the view to your viewers, based on your mousing.

The broadcast window also has an option to be 2/3 size or 1/3 size (512 or 256 pixels wide, rather than 768 pixels wide).  
Using this exact size ratio can help keep a bit of the pixel art 'crisp' in a smaller area, and may look better than using OBS to downscale your screen capture 
to some arbitrary but similar size.  


WINDOW SIZE (WPF only)

The Z-Tracker application is somewhat large (the window content is 768x963), designed to make all of the important information available to the player on-screen 
at once.  However some users may need or desire a smaller application.  You can make the application window 2/3 size by editing the file 
"Z1R_Tracker_settings.json" in a text editor, and changing "SmallerAppWindow" from 'false' to 'true'.  A few of the elements may not look as good at this size,
but most of the app's graphics are in multiples of 3 pixels, so this still looks decent and can make the app usable on machines with smaller display resolutions.


SPEECH SYNTHESIS (WPF only)

There are a variety of spoken reminders triggered based on the player's inventory, map progress, and time.  They are rather ad-hoc, stuff that helped Brian.
You can toggle various categories of voice reminders in the Options menu.

Visual icons representing these spoken reminders appear in the upper right corner of the timeline, both on Windows and on Linux.
You can toggle various categories of visual reminders in the Options menu.


SPEECH RECOGNITION (WPF only)

When hovering over a blank overworld map tile, with a microphone equipped, you can speak aloud e.g. "tracker set bomb shop" to mark the current tile as a bomb shop.

This option must be enabled when first starting the tracker on the startup screen, it cannot be enabled later while the application is running.

The list of recognized phrases is below (code from WPFUI.fs).  You can speak a second shop item phrase to set a second item of a shop.
If 'Hide Dungeon Numbers' is enabled, just say "tracker set level" to select the next free dungeon letter A-H; "tracker set level nine" still works.

let wakePhrase = "tracker set"
                "level one"         , 0
                "level two"         , 1
                "level three"       , 2
                "level four"        , 3
                "level five"        , 4
                "level six"         , 5
                "level seven"       , 6
                "level eight"       , 7
                "level nine"        , 8
                "any road"          , 12  // 9 10 11 12
                "sword three"       , 13
                "sword two"         , 14
                "sword one"         , 15
                "arrow shop"        , 16
                "bomb shop"         , 17
                "book shop"         , 18
                "candle shop"       , 19
                "blue ring shop"    , 20
                "meat shop"         , 21
                "key shop"          , 22
                "shield shop"       , 23
                "unknown secret"    , 24
                "large secret"      , 25
                "medium secret"     , 26
                "small secret"      , 27
                "door repair"       , 28
                "money making game" , 29
                "the letter"        , 30
                "arm owes" (*armos*), 31
                "hint shop"         , 32
                "take any"          , 33
                "potion shop"       , 34
