Inspirational reminder:

[11:49 AM] marcmagus: I have never installed ZHelper, my only experience of it is hating it as a viewer.
[11:49 AM] Lorgon111: oh man, you are missing out on new ways to hate it



TODOs

Just a place to dump feature ideas (small or big) or fixes/improvements


(Don't forget to keep Notes.txt up-to-date as change features!)

(dungeon palette rom)



SMALL

dungeon icons: gleeok (swordless, may need to return), blue bubbles (reminder where uncurse)

something is weird with door clicks, sometimes registering multiple clicks or something
hover bomb/candle/arrow/bluering shows white-highlight of all their shops? (maybe dont need right click routing feature?)

maybe have an optionsMenu thing for all the showLocator stuff, in case folks find it distracting?

consider controller-button push-to-talk to explicitly activate speech recognition, to compensate for streaming-speech accuracy
 - option to play a sound when voice makes a mark
 - maybe want a quick 'unmark' gesture, to undo accidents?
 - if ship PTT feature, need a gamepad button chooser binding thingy, even if e.g. ask them to go to gamepad-tester.com and then select a number 0-9
     - and probably also want keyboard bind like left shift, if can figure out

select item box via voice?  select dungeon room via voice?

(Kigalas wants dungeon door options.  Keep in mind e.g. zhelper lets you filter out items you don't want to scroll thru, so i could also have options for 'extra UI' some people might opt out of)

timer: maybe two right clicks to reset (rather than F10), or a 0:00 button that takes two clicks? or a shift-click?

Timer: Yeah, everyone has their own timer, it's for me, I should really have an option to turn it off, and have it off by default.
It would also leave some blank space in the tracker for streamers to use for branding or cams, or things.

now that I have the 'scrollLocator' hover UI, I can probably get rid of S3/L9 blinking in the late-game - people hate blinking

remove-item-from-scrollwheel-pool (a la ZHelper) - pairs well with hotkeys, as can still hotkey/voice select

always-bombable spots:  
 - I guess I could overlay a grey question mark icon over the maybe rooms? Like the inverse of the 'X' rooms with a '?'  - no it looks awful
 - or make the 'highlight pixel' a darker color? something.  the display should ideally capture it independent of the route-highlighting
related:
homer: e. I like how the 1q/2q outlines work. It would be nice if you could select both at the same time for mixed quest when you don’t know the number, it would help narrow down options.
 - again, subtle display that can overlay options to implicitly capture the info is useful, like the maybe-v-always ow-map-tiles


shift-click the start screen to place the lime circle? 
something better than F5 for start icon? drag-drop maybe, explained on startup screen? click legend, then click map? hm.  (Keep as is, but add hover tooltip in legend?)

announce known coast/WS item name ('get the white sword off the coast with the ladder'/'consider the white sword item, which is a heart container')  (maybe - dont like speech getting longer though)

power bracelet spots with red box, like whistle spots have blue?
decide if right-click bomb/candle/book/ring WPF feature is worth keeping, or needs UI feedback, or port to Avalonia, or what to do
decide about PTT functionality
binary packaging for redistribution?
versioning . . .
ad-hoc counters? e.g. for door repair charges, or whatever else folks may want to track
yellow door state? (maybe left/right rotate forward/reverse thru unknown->green->yellow->red cycle)
show list of remaining box items? if less than N left?

(start screen eventually have 3. start OR load old data)

MEDIUM

Currently, when I find a take-any on the overworld, I
 - move the mouse to the top, and either click both candle and heart-X or click heart-gain
 - wander the mouse back down to where I am on overworld (where was it again?) and 'X' that tile
The mouse-movement is slow and error-prone.  Instead I should scroll tile to take-any and then some nearby-mouse-popup should give me options to take these action-sets:
 - do nothing (leaving decision for later)
 - X spot (I took the potion)
 - gain blue candle, X out a take-any-heart, X out map tile (I took candle)
 - gain take-any-heart, X out map tile (I took heart)
I don't know the right UI*, but it involves not having the mouse make the long journey from the overworld map to the hearts/candle tracker, and then another long journey back.
At the same time, need to preserve the simple/intuitive UI that already exists - don't let the advanced user break/clutter the casual user's experience.
...A similar thing happens when find S2 cave.
...A vagely similar thing happens when witnessing ladder item (ladder is fixed location on map, so easier to mouse back to un-erroneously).
...A similar thing happens when finding the ladder in dungeon 6 basement - what could be a good "local UI" there to mark up 6's floor drop and basement drop?

* a possible take-any UI is, once the take-any tile is on the map, middle-clicking that tile brings up some local popup selection of potion/candle/heart and you click which of the 
  3 options you want, which dismisses the popup and takes the actions.  And for hotkey-guy, simply pressing the hotkey to mark the tile also automatically pops up the local take-any UI 
  without needing the middle-click, maybe? In that case maybe need 4th option in popup (defer decision until later and leave tile on map)... actually, local popups always need a 
  'do nothing' option, e.g. for the casual user who accidentally activates the UI and just wants to dismiss it because 'what the heck even is this'
  (When a local popup-ui makes changes at a distance in other parts of tracker, long duration animations highlighting the changes will help users understand, and undo would be nice)

homer conversation, he forgot shops could even have second items:
regarding second-shop-icon, are you saying that it would help you remember that second-item is an option available to you if 'bomb' displays not just 'bomb' in center, but 
like 'bomb' on left hand side and like "shop item #2 question mark" icon on the right side, to display that the second slot is still available for use

and are you also/instead saying that rather than 8 scrollwheel slots for 'shop1-8' you would want 1 scrollwheel slot for 'shop' and then a separate popup UI for populating the shop

(I have no idea offhand which of those would be best/popular, a bunch of possible ways to 'do shops' and none completely obviously better than others to me)

IF I go with a generalized idea of take-any, where an overworld tile can have a separate popup-ui that activates via middle click or hotkey, THEN I can imagine a 
single SHOP overworld tile, with a popup-ui for populating the shop.  This is perhaps too complicated for the casual user, though, so I could imagine that the 
'default scrollwheel pool' would just contain the one-item-shop tiles, and the user could choose to customize/hotkey which of one-item-shop tiles or SHOP-popup-ui tile they 
want to have available to them.  And then there'd have to be a couple customization-default-templates for 'casual' v 'hotkey racer' audiences, which is a whole extra layer 
of UI/customization, so there is trade-offs in depth to serving each audience individually best versus serving a single common audience well... I will mull this over a bit.
Make the simple things simple, and the complex/optimized/customized things possible.


"when X remind Y" (can imagine various system with note text parsing; dragging e.g. 1 and ladder icons into notes to say 1 is ladder blocked; generic reminder when get bow+arrow; etc)
(possibly related to item above) way to take notes of e.g. dungeon ladder/gohma block, that is mouse-only for keyboardless folks
 - Make notes textbox smaller, and have 8 reminder areas where you can scroll
 - Sword – need better weapon; BowArrow – need bow; Recorder; ladder; Bomb; Key; Bait; money??? (bomb upgrade, but how much, hard to mouse)
 - Can auto hook a voice reminder when you get the unblocker
ui display could be dungeon number and icon boxes (how deal with scrolling? i guess not make a forceUpdate, so nothing happen until they interact with other ui)
   text  1:_ _ 2:_ _                text = BLOCKERS(hovertext explains) 
   3:_ _ 4:_ _ 5:_ _
   6:_ _ 7:_ _ 8:_ _
when you get the unblocker, numeral/box could get some highlight (and voice would announce once - accumulate all into one sentence "now that you have ladder, consider dungeons 2, 3, and 6")
when dungeon completed, could be grayed out
might you ever want to clear/change it? what if unmark getting unblocker (accidentally click bow, then unclick)?

General thoughts for LEVEL-?: For maybe marking unknown triforces A-H and assigning colors and labeling map with letters instead of numbers, maybe projecting colors like 
white sword item gets projected onto S2 tile.  
A-H might not be good lettering, since it's associated with coordinates, maybe STUVWXYZ or IJKLMNOP or something.  Ideally good 3x5 pixels, so JKLOPRTU... POLKJURY?
Or I am overthinking it, and A-H is best? Hm.
There is room to add 30 pixels at the top of the tracker for space for level-color-swatches and numerals.

If I want to put chosen color on backgrounds with text foreground (e.g. LEVEL-A) then see e.g.
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3942878/how-to-decide-font-color-in-white-or-black-depending-on-background-color
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9733288/how-to-programmatically-calculate-the-contrast-ratio-between-two-colors
https://gamedev.stackexchange.com/questions/38536/given-a-rgb-color-x-how-to-find-the-most-contrasting-color-y
for text contrast info
also https://lospec.com/palette-list/nintendo-entertainment-system

homer: larger shop icons (advanced users wont care as much about obscuring map)

crawl text as alternative to speech synthesis reminder (for Avalonia and for WPF-alternative) - could maybe go in timeline area?

I've been thinking I might want something along the lines of "highlight most recent map tile change" or "long duration mouse trail" or something.  
Like I have found that, I might be mapping stuff, and then go mark an item box or whatever, and then be like, 'wait, where am I? where should the mouse be?'  
Or I may find a dungeon, and select its dungeon map tab but forget to mark its location on the overworld, and then later be in the dungeon and be like 'where am I?'  
So I wonder if there is some good heuristic I can apply that is like, based on your mouse movements over the past few minutes, 
I think the most likely spot you are on the overworld is here (highlighted).
I think the heuristic is something like, there is a YouAreHere (x,y) and marking a map tile pokes it, or hovering a map square for at least ten seconds pokes it.  
Maybe?  An unfortunate interaction is that I sometimes move my mouse to an 'X'ed tile just to ensure that my speech doesn't accidentally mark the map 
(speech only affects unmarked tiles), so that confounds it a little.

review other common flagsets from rando, what works, what could work, etc
 - currently assumes these rando flags:
    - (routing, map legend) whistle to new dungeons & not recorder-to-unbeaten
    - (reminders) change sword hearts
    - (reminders/display) 3 starting hearts
    - (reminders) level 9 requires 8 triforces
 - works poorly with
    - hide dungeon numbers

size options were common requests for zhelper – can I scale? consider 2/3 size or something.

hotkeys as scroll-macros (e.g. immediately mark S3, or a dungeon room, or an item box)
hotkeys should be able to select icons that have been customized out of scrollwheen pool
hotkeys are often one-handed, so shift (e.g. R versus r to mark recorder basement v floor drop) is probably not useful (could maybe have r versus rr)



[11:39 AM] Lorgon111: I am already starting to imagine a first-time-experience UI, along the lines of

ZTracker did not find a settings file on disk, perhaps this is your first time using this tool?
 - Yes, I am relatively new to Z1R and ZTracker, start me with basic default settings
 - Yes, I am a seasoned Z1R runner who has experience with other trackers, turn off the tutorial/helper options and quickly walk me through icons/customization/hotkeys
 - I know ZTracker, first time on this machine, give me some defaults and I can customize it myself
 - No, what, I just used this yesterday, help me troubleshoot why my settings did not get saved
[11:45 AM] marcmagus:
 - I know ZTracker, first time on this machine, give me some defaults and I can customize it myself
Multiple presets here? Something like 'new', 'speed-hotkey', 'helper-voice'?
[11:46 AM] marcmagus: (If config-editing is a thing, can also be done by shipping a few 'example' configs)
[11:46 AM] Lorgon111: yeah shipped samples is what I vaguely imagine




BIG

'undo'
[9:52 AM] homerjsmash: Yeah I like where you're going with all of this. Also this prompted another thought for me, one of my big mistakes I make is I accidentally reclick a tile I 
have already assigned. Example the potion shop is an open cave which is next to pb spot or something. When I finally get pb I move the mouse to that spot but accidentally fat finger
the potion shop, which since I deselect everything but x makes it an X. Shoot. What the heck was that cave? There's no undo button or something like that
[9:55 AM] Lorgon111: yes, undo, i have been vaguely thinking of that (mostly for speech recognition fat-AI-ing what you spoke), its a pain to code, but yes
like, not even just coding, but from a design perspective, someone scrolls down 3 slots on B4 and then realizes they meant to change B5, what should 'undo' do? undo one 
scroll? undo all recent (how recent?) changes to tile?  what will the user expect? etc etc etc it's a very difficult design space

auto save/load tracker state (not just options)? no, would be better for explicit UI action to save to a filename, and load from start screen, zhelper behavior is confusing to folks

layout options, e.g. maybe overworld map and dungeon/notes are two tabs, kinda like zhelper, for those who prefer a 4x3-ish layout, etc, hm

Keyboard focus and control

auto-tracking (link to emulator)







comparisons to ZHelper

ZHelper has lots of features this tracker lacks (save state, network coordination, support for more rando flagsets, custom icons, ...) and uses less screen real estate.

That said, I think this tracker has a number of advantages in usability, both in design and feature set:

 - All the items from a dungeon are in a single column.  No more accidentally marking 6's basement item in 5's slot, and then being confused later.

 - More consistent use of color: as things are completed (overworld 'X' spot, completed dungeon/room), they get 'dimmer' coloration, to fade somewhat into the background.
   As a result, the eye is drawn to the bright spots, which are where the remaining work is and where the player needs to focus.

 - Less scrolling: when an item or dungeon location is found, it gets removed from the 'scroll wheel pool', which means that as the game progresses, you need fewer scrolls to find the remaining mark you need.

 - Overworld zoom magnifier: no more squinting at the tracker to see exactly where the bomb-hole is located on that one screen.

 - Fewer clicks: mouse hovering can show the area zone overlay or helpful hints; fewer default options for e.g. dungeon doors provide a simpler interface.

 - Quick after-the-fact dungeon markup: if you play half a dungeon without mapping, and then decide you need to map it, drag gestures can quickly 'paint out' the already-explored portions.

This tracker also has a number of attractive added features, including:

 - ability to mark two items in a shop, rather than just one

 - ability to correct mistakes in dungeon markup (e.g. when you put a bunch of rooms in the wrong column) by cut&pasting a segment

 - a note-taking text area to type ad-hoc reminders to yourself (e.g. "2 gohma", or "L5 bomb upgrade 106")

 - overworld routing guidance that can help steer newer players to remaining unexplored locations

 - a timeline which displays the 'history' of when you got key items, to orient latecomer stream viewers, or to help you replay the seed in your head in the post-game recap analysis

 - speech synthesis features for voice reminders, and speech recognition features for marking bits of the overworld with no scrolling

 - ability to mark each type of dungeon room as 'cleared' or not, independent of the icon content you marked it with; also, ability to 'circle' key rooms in dungeons



